#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
Dear Sir/Madam,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I, Surendra Verma, wish to apply for the post-doctoral position corresponding
 to your post on iMechanics (https://imechanica.org/node/26796).
 I did my graduate and post-graduatione in 2015 from the Department of Aerospace
 Engineering at IIT Kharagpur (https://www.iitkgp.ac.in/), a premier institute
 in India.
 I have done my Ph.D.
 in the area of composite structures from the same institute in December
 2021.
 After that, I have done a research internship in the field of Deep learning
 under Dr.
 Pawan Goyal in the Department of Computer Science Engineering, IIT Kharagpur
 for eight months.
 I have also worked as an Assistant professor at Punjab Engineering College
 (https://pec.ac.in/) on a contract basis for one semester before moving to
 Toronto, Canada.
 Currently, I am a post-doctoral research fellow in the Department of Mechanical
 and Industrial Engineering at Toronto Metropolitan University, Toronto,
 Canada.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
My research area of interest is related to the linear and nonlinear analysis
 of flat, folded, curved panels made of advanced composite material (laminated,
 sandwich, functionally graded material, piezoelectric) using Isogeometric
 and finite element methods.
 Particularly, I deal with bending, vibration, transient, harmonic, and
 buckling analysis in dry and hydrothermal environments.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
During my Ph.D.
 tenure, I extensively worked on the nonlinear bending and buckling analysis
 of laminated and sandwich curved panels in hygrothermal environment.
 I have used finite element analysis in conjunction with equivalent higher-order
 shear deformation shell theory.
 As a part of my Ph.D., I demonstrated three major contributions to the structural
 analysis.
 (1) Geometrically nonlinear bending analysis of composite plates – I have
 compared von Karman and Green-Lagrange nonlinearities for different plate
 structures under different boundary conditions.
 I have suggested to used Green-Lagrange nonlinearity by showing the error
 difference in the von Karman results for at least one free edge condition,
 which is common in aircraft structures.
 (2) Buckling analysis of composite plates – I have proposed a systematic
 approach for buckling analysis without the preassumption of uniform loading.
 Particularly, the effect of pre-buckling boundary conditions and Green-Lagrange
 stress stiffening is analyzed.
 A comprehensive comparison between different linear and nonlinear buckling
 approaches is also made.
 I have suggested using nonlinear buckling approaches with Green-Lagrange
 nonlinearity for reliable prediction of buckling and post-buckling responses.
 (3) Bending and buckling analysis of curved panels – I investigated the
 bending and buckling solution under different transverse and inplane loads
 with/without hygrothermal environment.
 A shell model is proposed, which is based on generalized equivalent higher-orde
r shear deformation shell theory.
 I have used a curved shell element for this study instead of flat and degenerat
ed shell elements.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I am currently working on analyzing rotating structures under Prof.
 Donatus Oguamanam (https://www.torontomu.ca/mechanical-industrial/people/faculty/
donatus-oguamanam/).
 Moreover, I am also extending my Ph.D.
 works for the functionally graded materials in collaboration with my IIT
 Kharagpur junior.
 Apart from this, I am also trying to do structural analysis through a deep
 learning approach.
 My future research interest is to develop various open-source modules to
 do different types of structural analysis in the field of solid mechanics.
 My GitHub repository contains my source codes related to my work (https://githu
b.com/suri2501).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
By virtue of my Ph.D.
 work, I have gained considerable experience in structural analysis and
 tools.
 I have extensively coded the finite element program in MATLAB for all these
 works and compared it with Navier, 3D Elasticity, and ANSYS solutions to
 validate the approach.
 I am skilled in Mathematica, C, C++, and Python, with data structure and
 algorithms knowledge.
 Moreover, I have strong knowledge of the Isogeometric approach.
 If I get an opportunity to work in your research group, I can work on Topology
 optimization using a level-set approach via Isogeometric.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
My kin interest in the above-mentioned areas and prior experience with various
 skills will greatly benefit me in realizing the work at hand.
 My CV is enclosed, along with a list of my published works and references.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Thank you for giving your time.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
